hi welcome to how to repair this video
is on a beaker washing machine that's
not heating I will be showing you how to
test the heating element and also the
NTC sensor and also show you how to
change them now we've got a Beko washing
machine here that hasn't shown an error
fault but it is been stuck on the wash
cycle for over two hours and basically
it's not heating I've tested it with my
amp meter already and it's not drawing
any current I'll show you that at the
end of the video so what we're going to
do is let the Machine empty switch it
off from the power supply and then undo
the back panel to gain access to the
element now this video can be used on
other makes as a lot of washing machines
have NTC sensors fitted and all washing
machines nearly have a heating element
fitted now just at the bottom there we
have the heating element and NTC sensor
so as I said earlier for safety always
make sure you unplug the appliance
before working on it from the
electricity supply now we're going to
remove the two cables which go to the
heating element setting the meter to
continuity and we'll test for resistance
across the element and as you can see we
have resistance
so therefore the element is good and now
we're going to test the NTC sensor now
there's links on the left-hand side of
this video and also in the description
below for mobile users and these links
will actually take you to the website
and on the website we have a detailed
video on how NTC sensors work now I've
actually got a little test connection
block which allows me to get onto the
terminals without messing around because
the terminals are very small and very
hard to get your probe on now
I've got the two clubs on to the actual
center but we are getting no reading at
all now your meter must be set on the
ohms to do a test on an NTC sensor but
this is open circuit now I'll just do a
test on the new one
now all NTC sensors have a tolerance
level which is only given out by the
manufacturer of the NTC sensor and also
the appliance manufacturer no only
usually distributed to the engineers but
this NTC sensor I know has a tolerance
level of around 6000 and as I was
holding the NTC sensor the value was
dropping which means it's working
correctly as the NTC sensor gets warm
the tolerance level drops but you can
see all this in the more detailed video
and as you can see as I'm not touching
it now it's going up slightly and I know
this new NTC sensor is perfect anyway so
to fit the new NTC sensor you need to
remove the nut in the middle of the
element but not all the way off the
thread you just need to leave it on the
end there and then with a screwdriver
just tap it in yeah and that will
release the pressure off the seal
allowing you to get the element out now
sometimes these are very sticky and you
might have to use a small stumpy
screwdriver to prise it out and there we
go
we have the element a little bit
clothing wrapped on it now here's the
NTC sensor now we've taken the pressure
off the seal we're able to prise out the
old NTC sensor we can discard this and
we'll fit the new one I always recommend
just putting a touch of very liquid or
something on the end of it and it will
help it slide into the rubber easily
and then it's a good idea to clean up
the surface of the seal get all the
limescale off it and then again just dry
it off and then put a little bit of very
liquid on this seal before reinserting
the element now as I said earlier there
are links to all Beco parts on the top
left-hand side of this tutorial and also
in the description below and there is
also some links to the tutorials and the
FAQ section on washing machines for more
information on Biko's we have all the
test procedure on all components and the
diagnostic videos and please remember to
subscribe to our channel which is on the
left hand side whether it being on
Facebook or Google+ or subscribe on the
YouTube channel as that's what keeps us
going and able to make these free videos
for you just showing you how the seal
locks up here as you do the nut it
brings that piece of metal down onto the
seal which clamps the seal to the tub
and there you go now before we put the
machine on test I just make sure you get
the wiring on correctly if you are ever
unsure about working on machine it's
always worthwhile taking a photograph
before starting the job of the wiring
but on this machine it's straightforward
there are only three wires alive a
neutral and an earth and then of course
the jack plug for the NTC sensor so now
we've got it all connected I will just
put the machine on test for you and I've
connected up my amp meter and as you can
see when the machine is stopped turning
in a second
we're drawing just over seven amps on
the heating element and there you go
thanks very much indeed for watching
this video please do remember to support
the website by buying your parts from us
and do subscribe to our channel as
that's what keeps us going and able to
make these free videos for you
and remember if you did find this video
helpful you can always click on the link
before to buy Paul Revere
thanks very much indeed bye bye